# project2 Number Guessing Game
This Number Guessing Game project is a project that I completed in my CS232 course in college at Jacksonville State University. This code was written on September 12th, 2021. It was completed using Apache NetBeans IDE 12.4.
# Class Description
CS232 is the Computer Programming 2 class offered at JSU. This class covers many things, such as: advanced problem solving, object-oriented programming, abstract data types, recursive functions and procedures, records, linked lists, testing and debugging, and developing user-friendly programs.
In this course, we are enhancing our programming abilities, including the ability to develop applications which make use of graphical user interface elements and multi-threaded execution. We will gain a higher understanding of object-oriented programming along with a better appreciation for it. We will acquire proficiency in the use of a set of data structures, and in the creation of recursive solutions to problems. We will also develop interpersonal communication and teamwork skills through the participation of group projects.
In this class, we complete weekly programming assignments that are due on a weekly basis. This class focuses on learning how to use java. Through the course of several months, we will increase our ability to work with java and improve our programming ability. 
I am taking this class because it is a requirement for my Computer Systems major. I found an interest in computer programming in my first year of college and decided that this was the major that I wanted to focus on.
# Short Project Description
This program uses different control statements to write a simple number guessing game. The game chooses a random secret number between 1 and 100. It then prompts the user to guess what the secret number is in under 15 guesses. If the guess is incorrect, the game tells the player whether the number was too high or too low. It also states how many guesses are left. When the player guesses the correct number, a congratulatory message is printed to the user.
# Long Project Description
The program starts by creating a scanner object in order to read in the guesses from the user. This gives the program the ability to take in the readers guesses for the secret number.
We then declare our variables that we will need in the program. We have to create our secret number by using Math.random() which generates a random decimal number. We have to multiply this number by 100 in order to get an integer and add one so that 100 is included in the range for the random number.
The variable "guess" will hold the value of the users guess. "num_guesses" will be used to count the number of times that the user has guessed. "guesses_left" keeps track of the amount of guesses that the user has left. Note that this variable is already initialized to 14 to count for the very first guess. The boolean value "incorrect" is set to true and will end the while loop if the user guesses the correct number. The boolean value "win" is set to false. This variable will help us determine the correct message to give the reader when the game is over. 
A message is outputted to the user to give them the details of the game.
Next, there is a while loop. This type of loop will continue to function until the condition is false. That is, until incorrect is false or until the number of guesses is 15. The while loop will run until the game is over. For the game to be over, the user will either guess the correct number or they will guess too many times. In this while loop, the user is asked to enter their guess. After they enter their guess, it will be run through the if-then-else-if statements. Once each if statement has been passed, the number of guesses increases by 1.
If-then-else-if statements check multiple conditions. The first if statement checks if the guess is greater than the secret number. If the guess is greater, then the game will output a message that says their guess was too high. If will then say how many guesses they have left. After they are told how many guesses they have left, the number of guesses left is decremented by 1.
The first else-if statement checks if the guess is lower than the secret number. If the guess is lower, then the game will output a message that says their guess was too low. If will then say how many guesses they have left. After they are told how many guesses they have left, the number of guesses left is decremented.
The second, and last, else-if statement checks if the guess matches the secret number. If the guess matches the secret number, it will change the value of "incorrect" to false and the value of "win" to true. This allows the game to exit the while loop and move on to the congratulatory message. 
At the end of the program is an if-then-else-if conditional statement. This will determine which message to display to the user: the congratulatory message or the loss message. The if statement checks if the boolean value "win" is true. If the player guessed the correct number, then "win" would have been set to true. This would allow the congratulatory message to be displayed which tells the user congratulations and how many guesses they used. If the user did not guess the correct number and used all 15 of their guesses, then a message will be displayed that says they did not guess the correct number. It will show the correct number and ask them to try again.
There are many comments throughout the program that give a brief and basic description of what is occurring in that section of the code.
